do you want to put together an seo
campaign for your business that
generates a solid flow of revenue for
the long term then stay tuned hey i'm
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
so first of all what the heck is seo
where seo stands for search engine
optimization it is the process of
getting your website to page one of
google's organic so the non-paid search
results so who is seo for well anyone
that wants to get more customers more
business from google i'm sure you've
done it yourself right you might need
help with the product you might need a
service you might be comparing things
you might be searching france for a
question chances are you're typing in on
google
and you're going with one of the results
that probably shows in the top three
four or five organic listings and you'll
click it and depending on the
information that they provide you you
might get in touch with them or take a
specific action now who should focus on
seo well seo should i always advise it's
part of a multi-channel strategy as seo
typically is a long-term marketing
process
so quite a lot of the time when we work
with clients they might be running paid
ads like google ads they might be
running some social ads they'll be doing
seo for long term and then perhaps
they'll be doing other things like
social media marketing
perhaps they're doing webinars and other
bits and pieces to to generate inbound
cells and leads now how long does seo
take well it's a bit like saying how
long is a piece of string depending on
the industry you're in so if you're in a
super niche a super localized business
where you only serve a certain region in
your local area and there's not much
competition it could be very quick
however if you're in a perhaps a
national company or you operate
internationally perhaps your products
are very very competitive and so there's
a lot of competition in the market then
you could be talking months or even
years to get your main focus keywords to
page one but with that said let's dive
into the nuts and bolts and let's dive
into the strategy of how to actually win
with seo if you're building a house you
wouldn't try and put up the doors the
windows all the brick walls before you
had a solid foundation in place to build
upon and seo is much the same you need a
solid foundation so before you start
trying to build links
or buy sponsored content post or start
distributing content or all that good
stuff you need a solid foundation and in
this case
that means solid keyword research so
understanding the search terms that you
want to be page one of google's organic
search results for
and we want to link them to revenue we
want to link them to products or
services you actually want to be selling
so some tools to consider are
google keyword planner
ahrefs
sem rush or neil patel's tool uber
suggests um there's a bunch of others
but these are great for doing things
like checking the competitive
competitiveness of search terms how much
traffic volume they get each week
month
checking out your competitors your
competition so looking at reference
sites and the search terms they're going
after checking your current status so
seeing where your website ranks now for
specific search terms or if any
and then from there you want to think
about a few things so
usually depending on the size of your
business and the amount of resources
that you've got in house or that your
marketing team has got you need to think
about how many search terms you're going
to target for example s web choice our
plans start 10 keywords and 10 search
terms so that's probably a sound idea
for a small company likewise if you're
an enterprise company with 100 staff
then you're probably looking at 100 plus
search terms
so depending on the size of company
under think about that
now once you've sorted that you want to
do a mix of competitive search terms
what are called short tail keywords that
we'll get into in a sec which might take
several months to rank for
kind of medium term
search terms which again could be kind
of several months to rank for and
shorter term keywords which are usually
what's called longer tail keywords which
could just take a few months now
in terms of let's let's do a bit of
breakdown let's say you provide crm
solutions maybe provide crm for small
business so
keywords like crm companies crm agencies
crm provider are going to be extremely
competitive with hundreds if not
thousands of people all trying to get
the top spot on google
so you might want to look at things like
crm for small business or small business
crm even still they're going to be very
very competitive so those might be some
of the long term goals and some of the
keywords you decide for the next 6 12 18
months
in the middle you might want to be
thinking about
kind of compar comparing base keywords
so perhaps people have um heard of your
brand maybe they're comparing crms maybe
they're comparing zoho versus yours or
hubspot versus your company name um
or maybe they're looking at things like
10 top tips to find the best crm
provider um those kind of
educational
midway through the sales funnel search
terms you could think about and then
likewise at the really longer tail
keywords so people that perhaps haven't
heard of your company that are doing
initial research things like
top things to consider before investing
in crm or
how to find a crm company that's the
best fit for you
all those kind of search terms and some
good ideas to think about these are
perhaps there's common questions that
your sales team get on calls when
speaking to prospects or customers um
around your services um i.e how do you
do x or best ways to fix y or how to
resolve zed or
top ways to do x so those kind of things
if those common questions that your
sales reps get you can again incorporate
those in your shorter term what's called
longer tail keywords
now once you've considered all of those
options and thought about kind of long
term midterm short term top of the
funnel searches so people are early in
the stage midway through and bought the
sales funnel people have got high intent
and ready to buy and you've done a
mixture of those you've researched using
tools like semrush ahrefs uber suggests
google keyword planner to find out the
data behind them make sure they've got
enough search volume
don't always be just distracted by the
amount of search form they've got though
because some that are really high intent
can not always have the the masses of
search volume that others do and
likewise have a look at what your
competition is doing get some ideas from
them but not necessarily copy them once
you have chosen your keywords that you
want to go ahead with for your business
then
comes the on-site work so on-site seo
can be split into two main
parts
technical and content so looking at
technical first google recently at the
time of recording this rolled out a
update called cool web vitals so take a
big emphasis on things like mobile first
design making sure your website works
super well on mobile it gives people a
great experience on mobile tablet and pc
it's easy to navigate around and it's
just has a good interface isn't
confusing and is easy to find exactly
what you're looking for in minimal time
possible making sure your page loads
nice and fast so if you haven't yet
check your page speed on google page
speed insights and you can get a quick
idea of how quick your site is you want
it really one second or less on mobile
and pc and google page speed insights
will also give you actual tips and if
your site is a bit slow on what you need
to look at
so then technically you need to think
about things like google doesn't google
wants your site to be as informative and
helpful to people as possible
so with your chosen keywords there's no
point trying to stuff them all into a
homepage or a one-page website as that's
just gonna give people a poor experience
and not help your ranking at all so for
example if you're a service based
company
you want to have a
page on your site for each of the main
services you offer along with if you
serve different locations and each of
the main locations you offer
along with things like useful resources
contact page team page so breaking down
the search terms they fit to relevant
pages so each page is technically sound
in terms of things like your meta title
and your meta description so that's when
you do a google search and you see the
listing um each listing has got a title
and a description of the listing that's
the title description your page titles
what you see in your your tab at the top
that describes the page and the heading
tags so when you go on a page you've got
a range of title tags and the intro the
page things like image alt tags
and essentially reviewing all the site
from a navigation standpoint speed
standpoint user experience um and
structure standpoint and making sure
it's all technically sound it's aligned
with the search terms you're targeting
and also follows best practices in terms
of user experience user interface mobile
views and page speed and there's a fair
bit to it but that's in a nutshell
now once you've sorted that you want to
look at the content side of things
so google loves fresh relevant
informative detailed content
so
looking at your website not just as a
shop window even if it is an online
store but also as a useful resource so
it can help educate and inform people
around your industry and to get them
trained up on it help them learn
something new so you become a trusted
resource and they trust in you to
recommend you and also buy from you or
get in touch with you so
you'll have a bunch of keywords that
you're targeting from your research
stage we want to make sure
those keywords link through to relevant
pages
and we want to make sure the content on
each page is as helpful as possible so
if you have a service or product page
perhaps that's got some written copy
perhaps that's got perhaps if you're on
a service page it's got some photos
maybe it's got a useful guide maybe
there is an infographic explaining how
it works and maybe you've got resources
section on your site with podcasts with
blog articles
maybe blog articles cover common
customers questions
so making sure your website's methodical
easy to navigate the content is as
informative and helpful as possible one
tip you can do is you can check out your
competitors um especially the ones using
the tools i mentioned earlier for
keyword research see what pages they're
ranking for now
get ideas from their page and then make
your web pages your detail pages even
more helpful informative if they've done
a video make it make one that's more
comprehensive likewise infographics and
just one-up them in every aspect
possible to make your site the go-to for
your industry next up is the off-site
seo so we've discussed building a solid
foundation through your keywords through
your technical and your content side of
things on your website now comes the
off-site part to doing things off the
site to
rise those rankings up on google and get
your main search terms up towards page
one to increase your all important web
traffic and pre increase your brand
visibility and increase your sales
revenue or your inbound sales leads
so
it doesn't mean that on-site is over
because you always want to be thinking
about adding fresh content whether
that's articles whether it's videos
infographics new pages and just making
your website a useful resource no matter
what part of the sales funnel or process
people are at where they're ready to buy
or still considering options so in terms
of offset seo as an example
with web choice with our 10 search term
plan we might do things like
create five unique articles each month
perhaps one of those goes on the website
as a blog post perhaps the others get
distributed onto
article submission sites whether it's
things like a wordpress blog whether
that's a guest post that's relevant that
we found
in the industry that's talking about the
topics we talk about and whether that is
on
sites that allow article submissions um
and then each article that we put
together we'll have a back link
link to one of our relevant keywords
back to our website on the relevant page
these articles will be as detailed as
informative and as useful on the chosen
topic relevant to a search term as
possible other things that we do
are as well as creating articles
distributing them on relevant sites in
the industry and building links we'll be
looking at things like creating
infographics so detailed images that
break down certain processes in the
relevant business and again distribute
those onto sites that accept them and
we'll be doing
article submissions we'll be doing
classified listings so we'll be finding
directory sites
and there's a bunch of these i'm sure
you know a few in your industry that
allow you to create a directory listing
and put a bit of information about your
site put your website link in your
contact details we'll be looking at
relevant directory listings post
listings classified listings that again
relevant to your industry you're in and
that allow you put the details in about
your company and a link back to your
site
and all this good stuff we do each and
every month why do we do it what allows
us to distribute content it allows us to
build quality backlinks on industry
relevant sites which send signals to
google build up your link juice and
ultimately over time build up your
organic rankings for your website other
things to consider so we've gone through
keyword research we've gone through
on-site seo we've gone through off-site
seo
other things to think about are that
this is an ongoing process right so you
need to constantly measure what you're
doing
so a must is to install google analytics
on your website so you can actually
yield the fruits of your labor track
what's going on so google analytics will
tell you the traffic that's coming to
your site the traffic sources so if
they're coming from google organic or
you're running other ads or campaigns to
split what's coming from where
it's really important you track your
conversion so if your e-commerce you
track all the purchase options or if
you're a lead gen website then you track
the click to calls the inquiry form
fills the phone calls
someone emailing you direct and every
angle that someone can convert or get in
touch or buy from your website is being
measured so you can
assess how well your seo your search
terms your activity is contributing to
actually driving bottom line to driving
sales leads and driving revenue that's
important to stay on top of
and likewise to measure each month so if
you're working with a seo company then
they should be reporting on all the work
they're doing each and every month in
terms of the work on your site in terms
of off your site the content that's
being created and then approved by you
how it's being distributed the links
that are being built the sites that
submissions and directories and article
listings are going to so you have a
clear report each and every month of all
the work done
of all the results achieved in terms of
the ranking progress so you're tracking
how well your chosen keywords the
rankings are progressing up in google's
results
and then most importantly how much
traffic how many
sales leads
and how many conversions
in terms of leads or
bottom line you're actually getting from
the work so you can measure each month
and look what needs improving and plan
for the future and there we have it
there is my summary of seo and how to
make sure actually drives revenue for
your business for the long term
if you enjoyed this one why not check
out my weekly email at
businessgrowth.email that's
businessgrowth.email i share actionable
marketing tips with useful podcasts free
guides stories
and a joke to kick-start your week
that's each and every monday at business
growth dot email
and with that said thanks very much for
tuning in as always if you enjoyed the
episode do hit that subscribe button and
with that i'll catch you on the next one
cheers